# ChicagoGreenRoofs

This GitHub has five total files within the ZIP download. The first will be the original data file in csv which was found on Kaggle. The second file will be the original metadata that came with the dataset file in JSON format. This original metadata file has information which may be pertinent to keep for some users. Additionally, the JSON file used a proprietary schema. This proprietary schema risks becoming obsolete as not many users may have access to the exact schema protocol to understand the elements it uses. With ambiguous elements and classification, the user can possibly loose what the intended meaning of some entries are because of undefined elements. It is easy to open the file as a text formatted file, usually what the computer will default to if no application can open JSON files. In order to open the JSON file in a hierarchical view, it is important to have a JSON format viewer which can be downloaded from application stores on the internet. The third file will be this document which attempts to help explain the documents, origin, and data within the three other files in the ZIP. The fourth file will be a newly made metadata file in XML format attempting to establish more visibility of the data. The final fifth file will be the project description (README file) which attempts to organize and frame the data. 


This dataset provides square footage of existing green roofs within the City of Chicago. This information is derived from an analysis of high-spatial resolution (50cm), pan-sharpened, ortho-rectified, 8-band multi-spectral satellite images collected by Digital Globe’s Worldview-2 satellite. The City supplied the consultant with a 2009 City boundary shapefile to determine the required extent of the imagery. Acquisition of three different strips of imagery corresponding to the satellite’s paths was required. These strips of imagery spanned three consecutive months and were collected in August 2010 (90% coverage), September 2010 (5% coverage) and October 2010 (5% coverage). The results of the analysis include overall count of vegetated roofs, their total square footage, and the ratio of required to elective vegetated roofs. A total of 359 vegetated roofs were identified within the City of Chicago. The total square footage of these vegetated roofs was calculated to be approximately 5,469,463 square feet. The ratio of required vegetated roofs to elective vegetative roofs was 297:62 (~5:1). The median size of the vegetated roofs was calculated to be 5,234 square feet.

**Preferred citation format for this dataset:** City of Chicago Office of Environment and Sustainable Development (2010). Chicago Green Roofs Data. City of Chicago.

A visualization of the data can be found at: https://data.cityofchicago.org/Environment-Sustainable-Development/Green-Roofs-Map/u23m-pa73 . 

Original data found in this repository is derived from this link: https://www.kaggle.com/chicago/chicago-green-roofs
